Version 5.7 July 13, 1998
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Changes in this version are significant to WinNT/9x only.

Fixed a problem in the InfoLib routine InfoParsePath() to do with
filenames on the PC.  The code was looking for ":" as an arc style
info path, eg, "/foo/info:arc:infofile".  Added some code to recognize
PC style driveletter:/ paths.

Renamed files that had been changed to conform to 8.3.  All files now
have same names in UNIX and NT.
 
Version 5.6 June 9, 1997
---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Fixed a bug where I and B values greater than 2147483647 were
overflowing and ending up as 2147483647.  Changes in recinfo2dbf and
recinfo2asc.  Effects info2dbf, infolook, infolist, etc.

Fixed a bug in Todd's code similar to above but effecting dbf2info and
others that write info records.  Function is InfoEncode in infoitem.c.

Made info2cover and dbf2cover define the datum of the output coverage
as NAD27, unless a datum is specified in the projection file.

At DGUX 4.11T, the programs and libraries need "gcc -traditional".
This change also requires "-lm".  See Makefile for more.  Modified
makefiles accordingly.  Other systems my need to reverse these
changes, or try -fwritable-strings, or whatever switch your compiler
uses to allow string constants to be written to.

Fixed bug in defsinfo2dbf that caused info2dbf to give a fatal error
for N or F fields with a width of less than 3 and with 0 decimals.

Eliminated all error checking on incoming date fields in ascii2info.
This allows dates to be blank or empty without causing an error.

Version 5.5 April 21, 1995
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixed a bug in map/dmsint2dbl.c called indirectly by dbf2cover and
info2cover.  This bug caused bogus results with negative longitudes.

Added record number to error messages in makecoocoo and makegencoo.
These are part of info2cover, and therefore also part of dbf2cover.

Made changes to allow programs to work under DOS for processing
ArcView data.

The programs no longer have ARC help pages or UNIX man pages.  They
now accept a "-help" argument to display a built-in help page.  This
was done so that the help pages would be consistenly available both
ARC 6, and ARC 7, and from the system prompt (UNIX or DOS).  The ARC
help pages and UNIX man pages are no longer supplied or installed.
However, they are still uninstalled in case they were installed by a
previous version.
 
Added a new program, infodel, that deletes INFO files (with
wildcarding) from the system prompt.  If the INFO file is an external
file, eg, cover.pat, only the actual INFO file is deleted, not the
cover/pat file.

Installing the utilities as ARC commands is now optional.  This allows
sites that don't have ARC/INFO to install and use the system level
utilities.

The install script no longer uses ARC/INFO.  Formerly, the
verification tests called ARC to create a workspace and import an INFO
file.  These steps are now done at the system level.  The verification
tests are now part of the "full" install.

Fixed bugs in infodir, mostly to do with optional args.

Fixed a Sun only bug in info2ascii.

Rewrote misc/syscwd.c, which was causing infodir to dump a core on
DEC/Alpha.


Version 5.4 December 16, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Fixed problems having to do with 8.3 workspaces in the info direct
access functions.  The functions now work equally well under ARC 6.1.1
and ARC 7.0.2 regardless of whether the workspace you are in is
pre-8.3 or 8.3, and regardless of whether you are attempting to create
the FIRST info file, or subsequent info files.  This elimates the
workarounds that were required at ARC 7.0.2 in version 5.3.

Fixed bug in dbf2info wherein it attempted to read a directory as if
it were a dbf file.  This fix also applies to dbflook, dbfitems, and
dbflist.

Fixed bugs in infodir.

 
Version 5.3 November 29, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Changed Makefile to refer to the math library as /usr/lib/libm.a.
This should work on more systems than the previous -lm usage.

Fixed three non-DG bugs in my C code.

Help files are not installed unless $ARCHOME/help/arc exists.  It
no longer exists in arc 7.0.2.

This version does NOT fix problems with 8.3 workspaces in arc 7.0.2.
Unfortunately, there are a few problems in the info direct access
functions that I'm using.  See arc 7.0.2 notes in README.


Version 5.2 October 20, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Incorporated version 1.2 of Todd Stellhorn's info direct access
functions.  This allows the programs to work with the new 8.3 file
name option in ARC 7.0.

 
Version 5.1 October 5, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Added SINGLEQUOTE option to info2ascii and ascii2info.

Added PROBLEMS file with problems and fixes for various systems.

Improved portability of the swaptest program by allowing for variously
sized data types.  Previous version would fail unless long was 4 bytes
and unsigned short was 2 bytes.  The main programs already did this,
but swaptest did not.

Changed a few data types in dbflib for compatibility with PC.


Version 5.0 September 13, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Incorporated Todd Stellhorn's (tstellhorn@esri.com) info direct access
functions into the supplied infoxlib.a.  See source code in infox for
Todd's notices and disclaimers.

Converted all programs to read and write INFO data files directly
rather than via an E00 file.  Programs are now more than three times
faster when reading INFO files, and over six times faster when writing
them.

Everything except dbf2cover and info2cover can now be run from the
UNIX prompt, without the need for ARC.  Odd, but handy, once you get
used to it.

Added infodir, infolist, infoitems, and infolook.  Infodir has a
driver AML and is installed as an ARC command.  The others don't,
since they essentialy duplicate existing ARC commands.  They can all
be installed as UNIX commands, to run outside or ARC.

Dbf2info and info2dbf now accept specified items.  The default is
still to translate all items, but you can specify which items, and in
which order, if you wish.

Dbf2info now permits binary data in character fields.  Actually, all
field types except N and F may contain binary data.  Binary data is
converted verbatim to INFO data.

Programs that read dbf files will no longer fail if memo fields are
found.  Memo fields are converted to 10 byte character fields.  The
memo contents are not processed, however.

Info2dbf now automatically resolves duplicate field names.

Made the programs more forgiving, by internally resolving most of the
former fatal errors.

The install script now senses and adjusts for various system
dependencies (ranlib, etc).  Similarly, rewrote the verify phase.
Should now work on any unix box (I hope!).  Added an uninstall option
the the install script.

Put out a pre-compiled release for Data General AViion.

 
Version 4.4 July 21, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Added options to process redefined items.  This applies to info2dbf,
info2ascii, and info2cover.

Added improved portability of the dbf stuff by allowing for variously
sized data types.  Previous versions would fail unless long was 4
bytes and unsigned short was 2 bytes.

Added automatic byte swap detection to the install script.

 
Version 4.3a June 1, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Renamed info directory and library from info to infox.
 
Added help option to install script.  Added TODO.  Made all AMLs and C
programs have the same version and date as the release.

Added clean options to the install script to delete files that are no
longer needed after a successful install.


Version 4.3 May 24, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The new release includes all source code, and an installation script
that configures everything you your site, builds the executables, and
copy the required files to $ARCHOME.  There is no longer a separate
source release.

Changed so that programs first look for the input file as specified,
then, if file not found, appends the default extension and tries
again.  This allows you to proccess dbf files that do not have a .dbf
extension.

Made dbflook, dbflist, and dbfitems into AML utilities so they run
from the ARC prompt.  You can still install them as unix utilities if
you want, but you have to specify this by editing dbfinstall.  The
default is to install them as AML tools only.

Made ascii2info ignore blank lines in the structure file.  Also allow
it to be delimited by any mixture of tabs or spaces.


Version 4.2 May 19, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------

05/19/94 Made a new release that has no precompiled executables.
Since I no longer have a Sun, I can only provide DG executables.  New
package includes all source, with instructions to build the
executables and install everything.  When I have time, I'll write a
script to automate the build/install process and do another release.

05/16/94 Info2cover now checks the projection file to make sure it
has both input and output sections.  This also affects dbf2cover.

03/14/94 Changed low level functions so that incoming dbf N or F
values with values like "00000-123" and "0000-1.234" are treated as
negative values, ie, strip leading zeros.  This is consistent with
Census data, but is not consistent with dBASE, where such values are
treated as zero.  Also eliminated fatal error when an incoming N or F
field contains other than a numeric value.  If it's still not a number
after stripping leading and trailing spaces and leading zeros, then
simply change it to zero and go on.  No warning.

03/07/94 Low level changes so that incoming info F or N values that
are too wide for their field are converted to E format rather than
causing a "too wide" fatal error.  This affects only the info2
programs (info2ascii, info2dbf, also e00look).

03/02/94 Added ^E as a valid dbfid indicating memo fields present.
This is apparently used by dBASE IV.

03/01/94 Made fatal errors more verbose.  In all cases where an
incoming value causes a fatal error, the message now tells which
record number and field number triggered the error, and lists the
offending value.


Version 4.1 December 7, 1993
---------------------------------------------------------------------

11/02/93 In info2ascii.c, enlarged size of MAXRECLEN from 2048 to
INFO_MAXLEN+INFO_MAXITEMS+1.  This allows for the largest possible
record size for a comma delimited file.  Same for ascii2info.c but
from 4096.

07/28/93 -- Wrote new program "dbfitems" that lists dbf field
definitions to the screen or ">" to file (but not released yet).

07/28/93 -- Added "Coordinate items may not be redefined items" to the
help file for info2cover. 


Version 4.0 July 26, 1993
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Installation now done by menu.  You don't have to edit or rename any
files.  Unix part of the install can still be done by running a simple
script if desired, but you have to fix the paths yourself.

Dbf2info and dbf2cover now skip DBF records that are flagged for
delete.

Info2cover and dbf2cover failed with an error message if a coordinate
field was empty.  Now, empty coordinate fields are converted to zero.

All amls now respect the current &messages setting so that they can be
invoked silently (unless an error occurs).  Got rid of all global
variables.  All utilities now return success flag via aml$sev.

Made info2cover call info2ascii instead of dropping into INFO.


Version 3.0b May 12, 1993.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Forgot to comment out the "Closed for repairs" stuff in
info2covermain.aml.  

Fixed and made a dbf-v3b release of dbf stuff.


Version 3.0a May 5, 1993
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Made three changes to info2cover and dbf2cover:

DMS coordinates with spaces or colons between the degree minute second
components are now permitted.  Formerly, they had to be packed
together with no spaces between.

Added project define to the output coverage.  This only happens if you
specify a projection file.  There is no choice: if you give a
projection file, then you get project define.

Changed the joinitem that joins the input info file to the PAT of the
output coverage so that it uses the link relate.  This change has no
affect other than to make execution faster.


Version 3.0 April 20, 1993
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Added the {BINARY|NOBINARY} option to dbf2info.  This option specifies
how to translate type N or F fields that have no decimals.  The
previous version translated these to type I info items.  However, a
more compact and efficient INFO file results if certain of these are
translated to type B info items.  The new default option, BINARY,
translates type N or F dBASE fields with no decimals to type B items
when it would be more compact and efficient to do so.  The NOBINARY
option uses type I translation.  See dbf2info.help for more.

If you have already installed version 2.0, the only files you really
need to install for version 3.0 are dbf2info.aml, dbf2info.help, and
the executable for dbf2info.  Nothing else is changed.


Version 2.0 April 13, 1993
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Info2dbf now has an option to create type III+ or IV dbf files.  This
affects the maximum number of items allowed, and the way that type F
INFO items are translated to dBASE.  See help info2dbf for more.

Info2dbf now checks for type F or N items with number of decimals set
to more than the field width minus two.  dBASE requires that the
number of decimals be no more than two less than the field width.
Info allows just one less.

Dbf2info now has an option for how to handle non-printable characters
in the data section.  This was formerly a fatal error.  However,
FoxPro (and possibly dBASE IV or V) allow binary data in character
fields, so the option to permit this was needed.  See help dbf2info
for more.

Dbf2info now handles type F dBASE fields.

Type N fields with number of decimals greater than zero, and a field
width of 8 or less are now translated to INFO as type N items.
Formerly they were promoted to type F INFO items if they were wider
than 4.

Type N fields now cause an error if their values float.  dBASE allows
type N values to float, adjusting the decimal accordinly.  INFO does
not do this, so the translation fails if such values are found.


Version 1.0 March 2, 1993.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Now includes executables for Sun as well as DG.  This release also
included dbf2cover, info2cover, and dbflist.

This was the version that Ray Peterson took to the EPA GIS meeting in
San Francisco in February of 1993.


Version 1.0 November 5, 1992.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Initial version.  Handled dBASE III+ files only.  No type
F fields were allowed.  I didn't know that dBASE IV (and FoxPro)
allowed type F fields.  If your dbf file contained them, the program
would fail rather inelegantly.
